iteration-composition.xml	Iteration, composition	Traditional loop constructs (while, until, etc.) plus the Lisp "named let" (a generalization of FOR) plus functional iteration (repeated invocation of a function) and function composition.
list-utilities.xml	List utilities	Some standard functions on lists (append, reverse, etc.)
stream-tools.xml	Streams (lazy lists)	A variation on the list data type in which each list item aren't computed until it's needed, so you can construct million-item lists without really taking up all that time or memory, or even infinite-sized lists.  (A block that reports all the prime numbers is included as an example.)
variadic-reporters.xml	Variadic reporters	Versions of +, x, AND, and OR that take more than two inputs.
httpBlocks.xml	Web services access (https)	An extended version of the HTTP:// block that allows POST, PUT, and DELETE as well as GET requests, allows using the secure HTTPS protocol, and gives control over headers, etc.
word-sentence.xml	Words, sentences	One of the big ideas in Logo that they left out of Scratch is thinking of text as structured into words and sentences, rather than just a string of characters.  This library brings back that idea.
bar-charts.xml	Bar charts from tables	Takes a table (typically from a CSV data set) as input and reports a summary of the table grouped by the field in the specified column number.  The remaining three inputs are used only if the field values are numbers, in which case they can be grouped into buckets (e.g., decades, centuries, etc.).  Those three inputs specify the smallest and largest values of interest and, most importantly, the width of a bucket (10 for decades, 100 for centuries).  If the field isn't numeric, leave these three inputs empty or set them to zero.  In that case, each string value of the field is its own bucket, and they appear sorted alphabetically.  The block reports a new table with three columns.  The first column contains the bucket name or smallest number.  The second column contains a nonnegative integer that says how many records in the input table fall into this bucket.  The third column is a subtable containing the actual records from the original table that fall into the bucket.  If your buckets aren't of constant width, or you want to group by some function of more than one field, load the "Frequency Distribution Analysis" library instead. 
cases.xml	Multi-branched conditional (switch)	Like "switch" in C-like languages or "cond" in Lisp.  Thanks to Nathan Dinsmore for inventing the idea of a separate block for each branch!
leap-library.xml	LEAP Motion controller	Report hand positions from LEAP Motion controller (leapmotion.com).
textCostumes_module.xml	Text Costumes	Generate costumes from letters or words of text.
colors.xml	Crayons, fair hues, color done right	Incorporates the crayon library and the set RGB library.  Implements fair hues (more orange, less green, adds brown) and a linear color scale including grayscale and fair-hue-based shades.
setrgb.xml	Set RGB or HSV pen color	Set or report pen color as RGB (red, green, blue) or HSV (hue, saturation, value).
try-catch.xml	Catch errors in a script	Run a script; if an error happens, instead of stopping the script with a red halo, run another script to handle the error. Also includes a block to cause an error with a message given as input. Also includes a block to create a script variable and give it a value.
multiline.xml	Allow multi-line text input to a block	In general, text inputs allow only a single line.  The MULTILINE block accepts multi-line text input and can be used in text input slots of other blocks.
Eisenbergification.xml	Provide getters and setters for all GUI-controlled global settings	Eisenberg's Law: Anything that can be done from the GUI should be doable from the programming language, and vice versa.
bignumbers.xml	Infinite precision integers, exact rationals, complex	The full Scheme numeric tower.  "USE BIGNUMS <True>" to enable.
crayons.xml	Provide 100 selected colors	to use instead of hue for better selection
speech_module.xml	Text to speech	output text using speech synthesis.
animation_module.xml	Animation	glide, grow and rotate using easing functions.
pixel_module.xml	Pixels	manipulate costumes pixel-wise.
audioComp_module.xml	Audio Comp	analyze, manipulate and generate sound samples.
atomic_HOFs_module.xml	"Bigger" Data	[EXPERIMENTAL] crunch large lists very fast
frequency_distribution_module.xml	Frequency Distribution Analysis	[EXPERIMENTAL] analyze data for frequency distribution
maps_module.xml	World Map	[EXPERIMENTAL] add interactive maps to projects
make-variables.xml	Create variables in program	Create and manage global/sprite/script variables in a script
json.xml	Deal with JSON data	Turn JSON strings into lists with the listify block, then retrieve data out of them by using the value at key block.
parallel_module.xml	Parallelization	Run several scripts in parallel and wait until all are done.
strings.xml	String processing	Extract substrings of a string in various ways
HummingbirdBlocks.xml	Hummingbird robotics	Control the Hummingbird robotics kit processor

